---
layout: post
title: Money, BTC and EOS
category: non-tech
tags: blockchain EOS BTC
---

In any time of the history, we can always identify the two groups of people, i.e the ones who
want to change or embrace the change, and the ones who want to kill or stop the change. So does
blockchain(or cryptocurrency).

A lot of people don't understand what money should be as they don't know why fiat money just works
so well in our real world even they are just paper or digits. Everything is based on trust, while
trust is reached when it's accumulated from many people evolved. Once it's built, it's hard to destroy
whatever you want or not. Printing money is always a great power since its first appearence, and we all 
know something called Seigniorage, esp. after dropping the backing of gold, which means government(i.e the people
behind) is able to print as much money as they want, and steal money from every citizens without any punishment.

Somebody argues that USD is backed by the country's future income(tax, etc.), as we can see, future is something
uncertain, and obviously based on the confidence or trust. And so does BTC. BTC is backed by nothing, someone might
argue, but the truth is that BTC is backed by the same thing as USD, i.e confidence and trust. And the better thing
about BTC comparing to USD is, it's transparent and not controlled by any individual or group of individuals, and also
the printing process is transparent, and you always know the total supply of the money, which means it's almost free of
inflation as we always experience in our fiat money world.

So we have BTC's 5,000-20,000 USD crazy rising last year, and we have the EOS's 20% rising per day. That just demonstrated
people's confidence and trust, to such new type of money(or currency) for its prosperous and promising future. It's not
about belief, it's not about speculation, while IMO it's mostly about trust transferring, from government to machine, from
individuals to system, from blackbox to transparency.

Accepting paper money took a long time for the public, while that trend as we retrospected was unstoppable, so does crypto currency.
The final winner might not be BTC, but it will be something similar.
