---
layout: post
title: Books
category: non-tech
tags: book
---

Self-reflection is important as I mentioned in the last post, but it is always constrained with your 
own life experience or knowledge. And that's why we always give a great praise on books or traveling, since
it will expand your view about the world. Books can provide you a different perspective in a more systematic 
way because of the author's time commitment, while traveling makes it possible to see different culture, scenery, 
people or minds in person.

I focus on books for this post.

Books, whatever fictions, non-fictions, whatever subject, if they are good, they can always help you gain something new
no matter what it might be. For example, I just read a novel by a Chinese famous novelist, Jia Pingwa, which shines some light
on how to face your own desire, even you are in such a high level of intelligence, or maturity of mind. Such physical desire
might be something not easy to hold back, which is different from my initial thoughts -- you can manage your desire easily when 
you grow your own mind. So I start to doubt my deep belief about something, and might be open to different ideas. That kind of
gain might be not relevant to knowledge, but so relevant to mind maturity, which might be more important.

We only live one life, which has so huge opportunity cost, and means you give up so many possibilities that you cannot have the chance
to evaluate your current choice. Therefore, how to "pretend" to live more lives, books(or movies) just provide us the great
way. You see different lives, you see different choices, and you see different outcomes, which might not be practical or perfect, but
it always means a possibility, which we cannot take in our real life. The lives books convey also give us different kinds of experiments, that
we can assume ourselves as the main character and just follow the way the "god"(the author) designs, and undertake the joys and pains. Actually,
who knows that our real world life isn't desiged by some high power?

Keeping reading is always a good thing to explore the possibilities, even assumingly undertake those possibilities.
