---
layout: post
title: Humanity
category: non-tech
tags: humanity philosophy
---

Whatever thought experiments, psychological experiments, or the real world examples, 
we just found humanity is so complex, so difficult to figure out, but it is also so
straight, so easy to explain in the hindsight manner.

## Complex humanity

(S)he is right there, arguing with you about some trivial things. You are watching into his(her)
eyes, so deep, just like ocean, the bottom is beyond your reach, the bottom is nowhere; you're wondering
how strange that guy becomes, even with only a little twist of his(her) face, or a little reddish face, or
a little faster breath, or eyes with unbeatable rage, or a wolf ready to eat a sheep. 

Whether (s)he is still (s)he, you don't know, even it's almost the same physical body as the one you love before.
You cannot understand, and you get completely confused, just like Jordan Peterson's **unexplored territory**, and you
get petrified and don't know what to do, or you become another (s)he.

So that's the guy you know so much, spend so much time with, and pay so much emotion in, and (s)he can become so
alien to you, not to mention the total strangers. You can expect their behaviors?

## Simple humanity

Sometimes econmoics just puts everything in a very easy-to-follow manner, i.e interest. If you trace back to his
interest to explain his behaviors, sometimes everything becomes so clear and sound.

The hard part is **interest**, which is so different among people. Everyone weighs different things with different price tag.
But good thing is that we human beings just converge to those needs that are studied so well by some great psychologists or
philosophers. So in hindsight, we can simply follow that guy's motive and understand the reason beneath.

But how about foresight, can we predict a guy's behavior following the same approach? It might depend on whether you believe in
free will. If you don't think human beings own free will, you will say we can predict everything surely. But in reality, seems 
our world doesn't work in that manner, i.e seems we have free will in some degree, or we cannot obtain all the factors that determine
the coming event. For the former one, we cannot for-ever, and for the latter one, we cannot for now. 

Anyway, we just cannot.


##  So what?

So what? 

So I don't believe in human beings, esp. to govern a group of people, to affect a group of people's interest. Instead, I hope a 
system, a system that above everyone whose interest is involved, and with this system, we can have a more stable expectation about
the outcome, without worrying about the possible compromise against the system itself by favoring some guy's own interest.

Someone might argue that how and who will determine what should be in the system, i.e how the system works. That's a tough question, 
just like we expect a system that can be created out of nothing, at least without human involved. The reason that justifies the possible
solution is that we human beings are mortal and some great guys just weigh fame higher than his other interests(we say fame is also one type
of interest). So with those great guys, they can create a system without too much their own interest involved. And bingo, we are good then.

Have I told you that the US Constitution is something more or less the system I mentioned above?

Well, it's a pity that so few countries have such system, and so few people can enjoy such above-human system.
